Theme music plays
In the previous lecture we discussed setting up multiple Masters
as a key aspect of high-availability Kubernetes.
Let’s look a bit more into the Master,
what it does and how it does it
so we get the better understanding
of what this key component of Kubernetes
(and especially highly available Kubernetes) actually does.
Kubernetes Masters, as we discussed,
typically run three key processes.
They may run more but at least run these three.
Number one, a kube-apiserver,
number two, a Kube-controller-manager
and number three, a kube-scheduler.
These processes access and rely on etcd,
remember from the previous lecture that etcd is a distributed key store.
That stores the data about the cluster that these services might need to use.
To take a look at a Master we are going to need something bigger than the Minikube.
Remember from earlier in this lecture series
that Minikube packages the Kubernetes software
into something that’s convenient to run on a single machine.
This makes some compromises to provide that use of access
to the Kubernetes software.
One of these compromises is that a Master is running in the same process
on the same machine as the worker node and a variety of other items
required to run the Kubernetes cluster.
Examining the master is going to be difficult if it all on the same machine.
So we’ll take this opportunity to set up a Kubernetes cluster on Amazon Web Services.
This will be an actual Kubernetes cluster on a cloud-computing provider.
You’ll need an AWS account,
don’t worry if you don’t have one, we'll show you where you can create one.
If you already have one you can use that
regardless there’re a few things that we’d like you to know.
First AWS or Amazon Web Services is a cloud-computing provider
that provides access to virtual servers.
Along with the variety of managed services
ranging from object storage to DNS, databases and beyond.
AWS accounts are free to set up,
although they do require a credit card.
But they are not necessarily always free to use.
This is important to understand.
Even though they provide a free tier setting up a Kubernetes cluster like we’re going to do
on AWS does not fit inside this usage allowance.
It will incur costs to you,
depending on how long you leave it running.
Amazon sells the use of their services,
virtual machines, networks etc.
based on how long you use them and how much you use them.
There will be a cost associated with it.
And make sure that you know that your account is set up
and authorized to incur that span and that you are willing to do so.
So unless you’re prepared to accrue and pay these charges
and you’re confident that you'll able to properly stop
and release all the costs incur in resources,
you may want to consider just watching and following along.
The choice is up to you.
About an hours worth of use at current prices for what we are going to demonstrate
would cost around $10 but that’s not a guarantee
and make sure that you know how to track costs if that something that’s important to you.
You can set up an account at www.amazonaws.com
or log into your existing one.
Once you have an account or using your existing one
we'll log in and will grab a few important security credentials
we need to set up our Kubernetes cluster.
Regardless of what you need to set up an account or log into your existing one
let’s begin by going into www.amazonaws.com in a web browser.
Whether you need to create new account or log into an existing one,
https://aws.amazon.com here's your start.
Let’s click sign into the console.
Whether we need to create new account or log into an existing one,
we can do that here.
If you want the create a new account click the create a new AWS account button.
It will collect some information including your credit card and email address.
You'll have to verify your email address.
Like clicking on a link they’ll send you in an email.
At that point your AWS account should be ready to use.
And you can come back after you pause this video.
If you have some problems signing up Amazon offer support
through out the process by clicking any of the help buttons or replying to emails
that you get to verify your account.
If you already have an account
or you’re returning from the sign-up process,
lets log into our account by entering email address
clicking next and typing in our password.
Once you've completed that you’ll be logged into the console.
AWS management console provides access to nearly every Amazon products and services
As we've mentioned earlier in AWS provides a wide gamut of services
that are well beyond the scope of setting up Kubernetes.
If this looks a little daunting to you,
don’t worry we’re only going to use a few services
and we'll walk through each of them independently as we use them.
This console can provide you with access to the full breath of services
and if you’d like to explore it feel free.
For our purposes we're going to focus only on the EC2
or the Elastic Compute Cloud Service
and the Amazon S3 service,
the simple storage service
which provides a storage service accessible easily for applications running on and off Amazon's cloud.
Since we're going to use the kops toolset to create our Kubernetes cluster.
We won’t need to access the management interface for too many tasks.
However what we will need to do to provide the kops toolset
with access to our Amazon account,
is download some security credentials which uniquely identify our account
and allow us to securely communicate with AWS’s API.
To do this let’s go in the upper right hand corner
where our name is.
And go to My Security Credentials.
If you receive a warning message,
which you might if you’re logging in from the root account that you created, which is the default.
Click Continue to Security Credentials.
This warning message is for production customers
running large Amazon Web Services deployments
in an organization with needs to have segmented roles and applications using the IAM product.
For now access using our root credentials is exactly what we would like to do.
From here click the access keys button;
we'd like to create an access key,
which we’ll share with the AWS command line tools that we’ll install our system.
So that those tools can be used by kops to create instances
and provision our Kubernetes cluster.
Click Create New Access key.
Click show access key.
And note these values down.
You can copy them to the clipboard
and save them in password manager of your choice.
You can print them or you can click the download key file
to download the file to your machine.
We’ll need both of these values exactly
over the course of the next lecture and this lecture
to be able to access our cluster.
It will only be displayed once.
So make sure that you copy them down and store them in a secure place.
As these offer full access to your Amazon AWS account.
Now that we have an Amazon.com AWS account set up
and some security credentials created,
let’s set up a simple cluster on AWS.
Just like anything in cloud computing world,
you have a bit of choice in how much you’d like to manually
or how much you like to buy prebuilt from a given solution provider.
Amazon provides Kubernetes clusters out-of-the-box now.
It's there service called Elastic Kubernetes Service.
They manage all of the redundancy and high-availably items of your Master and at etcd for you.
The set up is highly automated and very friendly.
It's definitely production grade.
However because it is so simple to use,
it doesn’t give us the experience of setting up our own cluster
and introspecting the various parts of it.
So we'll use kops,
K O P S,  a suite of software provided by Kubernetes maintainers
to do a bit more of the manual work to set up our own cluster.
Now we could manually set up each Linux node from scratch
and manually edit countless text files
or on the other extreme we could buy a set of cluster set up for us using the Elastic Kubernetes Service.
However, using kops will provide us with a happy balance between the two.
It will give us the flexibility to look at and specify things about our Masters
and actually interact with our Masters once it is set up.
The other services may not let us do.
They may hide those details from us.
But at the same time it will take a lot of the manual drudgery
of having to set up manual configuration files and upload them
and set up a base Linux system
and automate that for us
because those are largely outside the scope of this lecture anyway.
It will allow us to focus our time and our energy on
learning the key part of Kubernetes.
So we'll use kops.
Doing this has a few key steps.
First, we'll download and install kops on our local machine.
Next, we'll download and configure and install the "aws" command line tool suite.
We'll also use the security credential we've just created.
So "aws" knows what account to create our resources in.
The "kops" tool will rely on some of the AWS tool sets
and APIs to create resources for us,
so we don't have to do things like spin up our own Linux  instances.
Then we'll create and AWS S3 bucket,
which is Amazon's block an object storage facility.
As a "state store" That will store the state of our cluster.
What the machines are and how they're configured etc.
Finally we'll create the cluster using "kops".
Let's get started.
Our first step is to download and install "kops" on our local machine.
Depending on your configuration and the type of system you're using
we'll have to install kops using a package manager or manually.
To get the latest version of "kops"
let's go to Google and find the "kops" GitHup repository by searching
for Kubernetes  kops.
In this case hit is the appropriate one.
The GitHub page for Kubernetes "kops".
If we scroll down the install instructions are available in the readme file.
On a Mac OS system you can use the brew package manager
as described here to install the "kops" binaries.
This is the preferred and easiest way to make sure that it's properly installed and up to date.
On Linux systems you can use the following commands to download
the latest version and install it and make it available for use.
Both of these methods should simply, with one run of the respective commands,
create a working "kops" install.
No other configuration is required at the step.
Whether you're running an OSX or a Linux system.
Run the commands and it should return successfully and we'll continue.
For example on a Linux system
let's copy the three commands to the clipboard
by selecting them, copying them to clipboard,
going to our terminal and pasting the commands.
This will download the kops toolset.
Depending on the speed of your connection this may take a moment.
It will then unpack the tools,
make them executable and copy them into a common area and path.
Type in kops -
it should give us the help screen for kops.
We know it's successfully installed.
We'll configure it to access Amazon AWS in the next step.
It should be noted that kops was natively developed from Linux and OS X.
Window support was introduced in mid-2017
and is claimed to be working.
But remains highly experimental and relatively undocumented.
You can search the kops GitHub repository for Windows support if you're adventurous.
There are a few notes on the GitHub issue
as to kop.exe working.
However the documentation as of now was relatively sparse
and it is not recommended.
Cygwin & the Windows Linux Subsystem are untested and unrecommended.
Again however if you are adventurous and familiar with these tools,
you may want to try running kops
under these Linux emulation or substitution systems in Windows.
But there has been no guarantee and there is no official support.
If you'd like to run kops under Windows machine
and don't want to be that adventurous,
it is suggested to run a Linux VM on your Windows machine
and follow the Linux instructions for kops and for the AWS toolkit in the next step
inside the established Virtual Machine.
You have a few options here.
Virtual Box is free and well documented.
By Googling Virtual Box and going to the Virtual Box website
you can download a free piece of software
that will run a Linux Virtual Machine
and has step by instructions on how to establish it.
There is a relative large community and this has been done by many people in the Kubernetes community.
So your support options are pretty strong.
Hyper-V is Microsoft virtualization solution available on some Windows platforms.
As an include Microsoft technology of course it offers great support,
however, documentation on this route doesn’t appear to be as voluminous
as setting up Linux VM on Virtual Box.
There are other commercial options also available.
Evaluate which one might be best for you
and search the documentation to set up a Linux Virtual Machine.
A recent version  of Ubuntu Linux
is likely to be the most well supported of the kops toolset.
However if you're familiar with the different Linux distribution
or have a different Linux distribution available on your machine already,
feel free to use that as well.
And follow the Linux instructions for both the kops toolset and the up coming steps for AWS.
Now that we've set up and installed kops,
let's do the same for the "aws" command line tool suite
that we'll need to access and create resources on Amazon AWS.
Let's take a similar approach to installing the AWS command line tool.
Since systems vary, let's go to Google and consult Amazon documentation
for installing their toolset.
You can Google any search terms of course
but the most precise would be something like AWS command line tool install.
Let see what that gets us.
Your mileage might vary but in this case the official documentation
from Amazon AWS is probably the best bet.
Let's click on it.
This documentation changes from time to time
so it might look a little bit different,
however the general idea is likely very much the same.
The default instructions require Python installed on your system.
If you're experienced with the command line use and are comfortable using these instructions
go ahead assuming that you know that you have Python installed.
To be safe we can also use AWS's bundled installer.
This doesn't require Python and if you are unsure if you have Python installed
or don't know what that means,
click try the bundled installer.
Next let's go to install the AWS cli using the bundle installer section.
We'll follow these directions  in order to install it properly.
If you are on Mac OS and you have homebrew installed
you could also use the brew install AWS command
if you'd like and are comfortable with that.
The first step is to download the AWS CLI bundle.
Let's do that.
Depending on your connection speed this may take a moment.
Once it's downloaded, let's use the next command to unzip it.
Next let's run the install executable.
Depending on the speed of your system this may take a moment.
Once this is complete you can run the AWS command to ensure it was installed properly
we should see the help screen when typing AWS.
Now we are ready to configure AWS
with the security credentials we created earlier
so it can connect to AWS's API on our behalf.
Kops will use the AWS command line tool
and we will directly use the AWS command line tool
to provision and configure resource
to create a Kubernetes cluster.
So it needs to know how to access our account.
Let's type AWS space configure.
At this point AWS is asking for the security information,
which we previously created.
It's asking for the AWS access key ID.
Remember when you created this earlier in the lecture.
Cut and paste or type in the access key identically from that earlier step.
Once you're sure that's the proper value press enter.
Now let's enter our secret access key.
Remember these values give full access to your AWS account.
Keep them secure.
Not like I'm doing here and publishing them for the world to see.
These credential were simply created as an example
and have been disabled.
Now it's asking for a default region name.
This is important to consider.
As we've talked about in creating redundant system.
Where  you create your resources matters.
Different regions provide different isolation levels.
Creating a server in one region and another region
hopefully let both server immune from any one event
which might take them down like a power outage
or loss or network connectivity.
AWS provides a variety of regions all across the world.
For a full listing of these, you could consult Google by looking at, or searching for,
AWS regions  and availability.
Looking at the regions and availability zones document
you should be able to choose one, which is optimal for your needs.
Remember region and availability
vary service by service.
In this case the first Google hit refers to the relational database service.
This just gives you an idea what region strings are available.
The one nearest to me happens to be the US-West-1 region.
However remember pricing may vary region by region.
So in making your decision consults the pricing tables
to ensure that you choose a region near you
that fits your cost needs.
US-West-1 is a little bit more expensive so I'm going to choose US-West-2.
You can always choose a different region when you're issuing command.
This is simply the default if you don't specify one.
We don't need to specify an output format.
AWS should now be configured.
Now that kops and aws are installed,
let's create an AWS bucket
that we can use as a state store.
A state store is simply where information about our cluster
that kops needs to be able operate is stored.
S3 again is an object store it allows us to create files,
store them in a bucket in the cloud
and have anyone who have access to those resources
write and read in a reliability consistent fashion from anywhere that has internet connectivity
that we've allowed to do that.
There are many way to create an S3 bucket.
But the most convenient is to use the AWS command line tool,
you could also use the web interface,
which is also convenient.
However we'll use the command line tool
to make sure that we keep everything in one place
and are able to simple do everything from a command line.
We'll type AWS,
which is the toolset we’ve just configured,
and we'll type S3api as the next parameter
to indicate we'd like to access the S3 API.
Then we are going to type create-bucket
because that's the command we'd like to issue.
Next we'll use the --bucket flag
to indicate the name of the bucket.
Bucket name must be globally unique
that means if any one has already chosen a bucket name you're trying to use it will fail.
A good rule of thumb is to ensure that you use your name,
your organization's name or something highly unique
when creating bucket names.
This will be globally viewable.
So don't use anything you'd like to keep secure
or something that might be embarrassing.
I'll use basit-kas-demo-bucket for mine.
Let's specify a region
using the dash dash region flag.
You can use whatever you like but to keep it consistent.
Let's just use the one that we had used earlier when we were specifying and configuring
the AWS command line tools.
I use US-west-2.
Then we have to provide a create bucket configuration item
which further indicates this location constraint.
Using the LocationConstraint option = the name of the bucket
again or the name of the region in which you are creating the bucket again.
Press enter, this may take a moment,
the bucket is being created.
You can see that the output indicates that the location of our bucket
is a URL with a bucket name .S3.AmazonAWS.com
This indicates successful creation of the bucket.
You may get a user  message or an error message,
which indicates your name, is already taken,
if so change your name and try again until you see successful completion like this.
Our bucket has now been created.
Now that we have a groundwork laid
with kops installed AWS working and a bucket created
to store for information about the cluster we're about create,
let’s actually create the cluster using kops.
Now that we have a state store created
where kops can store critical information about our cluster in S3
and globally available highly reliable storage service.
We can now create a cluster.
The first step in doing that
is making sure the kops knows where the state store is.
We'll set an environment variable
where the kops tools expected it to be.
To do this let’s type export in all capitals
KOPS_STATE_STORE=S3:// and the name of the bucket that you created.
We only want to copy the name of the bucket
and nothing else in that URL.
Press enter and the environment variable is set.
Now we can use the kops tools to create a cluster.
We will type kops create cluster
relatively obvious command
and then we will provide the name of the cluster.
This doesn’t have to be unique globally only unique within your AWS account.
I’ll choose basit–demo.k8s.local.
Next we'll provide the --zone flag.
Choose the zone and the region that you'd have already chosen for your S3 bucket and is your default.
We'll type US–West–2.
But because this is a zone and not a region,
we have to provide a letter after it.
Within all AWS regions are separate zones.
These are simply you can think of them as separate data centers within a given zone.
They provide fault tolerance and isolation of power,
network and other aspects of availability.
Each zone has a variety and a different number of availability zones.
They start with the letter A and run through however many are set up in that given region.
You can consult the documentation which we looked at earlier
to see how many availability zones exist in your given region.
However it’s a safe bet that an "A" exist in nearly every region.
So let’s just go ahead and choose "A".
We’ll specify it with the --yes flag.
This way it won't prompt us to create resources every single time.
Let’s press enter to get going.
This will take a moment quite a few things are going on here.
Kops is using the AWS command line.
If your SSH configuration error occurs
this is normal and may happened in certain situations.
If you receive an error like this…
it simply means that you don’t have a public key created by default.
We'll use the ssh-keygen command to create one.
Type ssh-keygen press enter
and let's just accept the defaults by pressing enter.
Let's try the command again.
We can see with a public key created everything is alright.
You may or may not have error, if you already had a public key created.
This is creating a variety of resources on Amazon AWS in our account.
From here on out charges will begin to accrue.
This will take a moment and you can watch each individual step.
Basically what's occurring is that the cluster is creating a variety of resources
including machines, masters and workers and networking them together.
Once it's complete you can see that kops has created the cluster,
it will take a few minutes to get ready.
It gives some suggestions and we'll follow each of those.
But let's give it a minute for resources to come up.
It's worth knowing that kops has automatically switch the Kubectl configurationon our machine.
If we type kubectl we will no longer be accessing the minikube, which is running on our machine.
Instead kubectl has now being bound to the cluster on AWS.
Any command issue to kubectl will now run against our cluster that has been created.
Not the minikube.
After waiting a few moments let's type the kops validate cluster command.
It's first suggestion.
The last line seems like an error. Cannot get nodes.
This means that it is not quite done with the set up items.
Let's give it some more time.
We can keep reissuing the command about every minute or so.
In this case we see we have a little bit of progress.
The Master has come up. It's ready.
But the worker nodes don't seem to be ready.
Let's wait a moment more.
It seems like patience is not my virtue.
Running the command again now we have one node out of two is ready.
Progress.
But we are still not quite there.
Seems like third time is the charm.
You can see that our nodes are up and running.
Two worker nodes, a master and we have confirmation that the cluster is ready.
This may take up to five minutes or more
depending on how busy AWS is.
Now that our cluster is up and ready, let's have a look at the Master.
The kops validates command has already indicated
that Master is already running on this host.
But let's scroll up to the list of suggestions that kops gave us.
First was validate cluster.
We already did that.
Let's list the nodes.
The kubectl get nodes command is one that we've used before.
We should be familiar with it.
But let's look at the output anyway.
This gives us information about each of the nodes,
how old it is and a variety of information about the versions
and label assigned to it.
Let's go back up to the suggestions again.
Let's SSH into the Master.
Copying this command would give us direct access
to a shell on the Master.
However you'll notice that this doesn't work.
The reason is that since we are not logged in to a shell on AWS itself,
the domain name cannot be resolved.
Let's replace the domain name here with one that can be why any machine outside of AWS.
We'll use the Amazon AWS console to get the externally available hostname.
Go back to the management console,
or if you don’t have it opened just open the web browser to AWS.Amazon.com
and click sign in to the console.
Once you are at console,
in the any upper right hand corner ensure that the console is set to the proper region.
In our case since I chose US–West-2,
that corresponds to US West Oregon.
The console is in the appropriate zone,
that’s good.
Now let’s choose EC2
because we're looking at our servers are available as an EC2 service,
let’s click on instances in the left-hand corner
and let’s choose the Master
there should only be one.
Let's cut-and-paste the public DNS name,
the entire string starting with EC2 to an ending with.com.
Let’s take that to our clipboard
returning to the shell
let’s recall the previous command, which failed by pressing the up arrow.
Let’s delete everything before the @ sign.
And let’s paste in the hostname that we just copied.
It may ask you to verify the public key in which case you should type yes.
It may not if that public key is something that you’ve used before.
In our case it didn’t but if you’re asked to verify a public key entrusted type yes.
We’re now on a shell on the Master machine
the kops created for us.
We can do a few things here,
first let’s type ps space ax.
You maybe familiar with this command,
it was a process listing of everything that's running on this machine.
There’s a variety of processes running.
Docker is running the Kube-scheduler.
You can see at etcd is running;
you can see the Kube-controller-manager is running.
All of these services are running as processes on this Master machine,
as we would expect.
You can see Kubelet is running.
All of the services were set up properly by the kops system.
We didn’t have to do them by hand but we can go and look at them as we need to.
You can see that etcd is being logged  /var/log/etcd.
Kube-scheduler is being logged to Kube-schedule.log.
Let's go look at our log directory.
You can see that the logs are available on file system,
if we'd like look at them.
Let’s have a look at the Kube-api-server.log.
You can see we don’t have permissions.
Let’s use sudo.
This is the output from the Kube-api server
since it's run.
There’s quite a bit here.
Now that we’ve seen the actual processes running our machine
and examine some of the log output.
Let’s look at how they’re running.
They are running as Docker containers.
Let's use the sudo docker command to look at what containers are running on our system.
We'll type sudo docker space ps.
This will give us a listing of every single docker container running under our Master.
There are quite a few.
Much like we saw in the ps command.
We can see kube-proxy running. Kube-api-server, etcd, controller-manager.
These are all individual docker containers,
which comprise a variety of Kubernetes processes.
These docker containers are started and run by Kubernetes on our Master
and we don’t have to worry about them,
this just gives us an inside look into the internals of our Master.
We'll type exit to logout.
And now we've disconnected from our Master.
Next let's use kubectl to look at a few other items.
The first command we'll issue is kubectl get deployments
but let's provide the dash dash namespace = Kube–system flag.
So we can look at services running in the Kuber system namespace.
You can see the DNS, the DNS auto scaler and the DNS controller are also running.
These were running on our Master as well.
Feel free to explore more using the shell of the Master.
You can look at logs and you can look at what processes are running.
It’s not important necessarily to understand the intricacies of each process,
those are managed by kops and by Kubernetes for you.
The whole point is Kubernetes provides transparent management of those underlying processes.
The key idea is just to know that they’re running, where they're running so you can be a more effective user of them.
You don’t have to understand the log output, you don't even have to understand individual processes.
Those are managed for you by Kubernetes.
The point of looking at these and logging into the machine
is not to master them but to know simply that they exist
and how to set up managed.
Hopefully unless you become a Kubernetes System Engineer
you’ll never have access them directly as we have today.
But hopefully it gives you an understanding of what's going on the Master;
where it exists and having touched it - it now exists as a real fractal component
and not something as if you’re had out of black box.
Because in future lectures we'll work on setting up multiple Masters using the kops tools.
Now that we have looked at our Master,
let’s make sure that we stop our cluster.
You’re more than welcome to leave the cluster running,
if you’d like to examine it further or play with it
just remember you’re paying for these resources.
We’ll use kops to delete the cluster.
This should release all resources and terminate the billing.
However bugs are present in all versions of software
and we don’t have control over kops.
To be completely safe close AWS account you created to ensure all resources are released and your not charged
or wait until after you’ve completed these lecture series to do so if you’d like to follow along the following lectures.
Regardless make sure that you’re not accruing charges
that you’re unaware of or that you’re not like to accrue by stopping the cluster at this point
because all AWS resources are billed on usage
which includes how long the running for some of them.
Using kops to delete the cluster is simple.
We'll type kops delete cluster
and we’ll give it the name of our cluster.
And we'll specified  --yes command so it doesn’t keep prompting us.
This may take a moment as it communicates with the API.
If you receive an error that your cluster was not found
check the name if you're sure the name is correct try appending .kas.local to the end
to ensure you have fully qualified name.
You'll see it’s going through iterating through resources and deleting them as appropriate.
This may take a moment.
If everything was deleted appropriately the last line should be that the cluster was deleted.
Deleted cluster with the name.
Again bugs make exist in the software,
which leaves AWS resources still running.
To be sure to avoid new further charges
close your AWS account or look at the billing status in AWS
to ensure no further billing is accrued.